Let's get started with react basics.
Now if you've taken any of my previous courses where I've taught react or you're not a react beginner
and you've built some applications before with react then you can actually just skim through these videos
or skip this entire section as this section covers the react basics.
We're going to build our first react application from scratch using something called Create react app
and then we're going to deploy it to get help pages again.
If you're completely new to react then you have to finish this section to move on with the course.
However for those with a bit of experience you might find this section a little bit easy.
Determine for yourself which direction you want to go remember.
Our goal here is to build these basics so that we can build our giant application our e-commerce platform
using react.
Now in this section we're gonna learn a few things.
However we're going to make a few assumptions here.
First we're going to assume you know how to use your terminal or your command prompt and you can also
use any code editor you want you can use Visual Studio code Sublime Text or any other popular javascript
developer environments.
Now this section is going to be a code along.
So I highly recommend if you're following along to have your terminal or command prompt setup if you're
on Windows Terminal if you're on mac or linux system and have your code editor so you follow along.
Now over the next couple of videos we're going to install node if you don't have it already.
And also the create react app that is going to allow us to write react.
I do want to make a few notes though first with this course.
As long as you have a version 10 or higher for node you're going to be fine.
If you don't have a version of node on your system that is 10 or lower then I recommend updating node
or if not you can use something called End VM and end VM is a node version manager.
So it's a simple way in the terminal for us to switch node versions.
Now this is something you can go through on your own the easiest way to do things is to just simply
download node from the node j J.S..
Dot org Web site.
Now the second thing we're going to do is we're going to actually install something called Create react.
And if I go to react J.S. talk here and I go to Doc's under the create a new react app.
We have this thing called Create react app which we're gonna talk about in the upcoming video.
Now the one thing I want to mention is that you'll see this command and p x and MP X is actually new
and comes with version of NPM 5.2 so if your NPM version is lower than this this command won't work
so you might want to update your NPM version as well.
Now MP X for those that haven't seen it before.
Runs a command of a package without installing it explicit.
So what does that mean.
Well before we had MP X this is what we had to do.
You see here that this is the current version of react based on when you're watching the video you might
have versions that are higher.
But again this course will work with any versions higher than sixteen point eight.
If I go here and go to an older version of React let's say fifteen point six.
If I click on documentation and then let's do docs and then finally we look at the installation
you'll see that we had to run npm install globally create reactor and then we ran the create react up
command to create our app.
MP X allows us to not install this global version of create react app and just simply run that one comment
to create our app.
All right now let's go back if for some reason during this section you are unable to get this started.
There is a another option where you can use this code sandbox style which I'll link to that actually
allows you within the browser to use react online.
Now one last thing we're gonna get started and go step by step into building our ReACT application.
But I also want to point something out to you.
You see when we study or learn libraries or frameworks or tools like react the best place to learn about
something is often the documentation and most tutorials don't mentioned this fact that well we have
the official react documentation that explains how we act works inside and out and most tutorials that
you see online are taught using this basic template.
So remember if you ever have questions this is always the best place to start.
Now we're going to be covering some main concepts and react here.
But remember that the way you learn a library is not like reading a dictionary where you just learn
every single thing that this library gives you.
The thing to understand that we'll go into later on in this course is how to build bigger and bigger
applications.
How to architect your app so that instead of learning something like a dictionary one by one we learn
the principles and the concepts that allow us to do advanced things and build real life applications
something that I'm really excited to do in this course.
So enough talk it's time for us to get started.
We're going to start setting up our environment in the next video.
We're going to build our first app and it's gonna be a fun one.
I'll see you on that one.
Bye bye.